Power over Ethernet (PoE)

With starting my new job, and working with new technologies, I heard a term thrown around I had not heard before and that was a PoE switch. Whenever I would move 3 people into a 2 person space I would need to plug a switch in, and was told it needed to be a PoE switch. I decided to look into what PoE is and what
it has to do with switches and the office. What I found is that PoE stands for Power over Ethernet, and it serves as a method of providing not only network to a device but also power through just an ethernet chord. This basically servers as a way for people to integrate new technology such as an AP or other powered
devices in locations that lack the neccesary requirements for electrical power. This just absolutely blew my mind, thinking about how this creating changed the game up for switches.

# How it helps
- Simplifies Installation
- Cost-effective
- Increases flexibility
- Centralized power management
- Even Improved safety

# How it works in my day to day
When I was setting up those three users in an office, there was only two ports in the room, so I needed a PoE switch to plug their desk phones into it. If I was using a switch, no power would be provided to the phone, and would not work, which is where the PoE switches come in. I plug that into the wall, run a ethernet
chord from the wall to the PoE switch and then a chord to the phone, providing both network and power.

When I had to travel to a remote site the other day, to replace an AP, I got to the site and noticed the switch is a PoE switch, and that I did not have to provide the AP with a power source. I simply had to plug it in and it powered up, connected and was ready to go. 

I know it is super simple and I have seen they have been out for a long time but I just found it to be super interesting that we have something like that.
